---
layout: post
title: "OSCAL 2923: Call for Speakers is Now Open"
date: 2023-06-07 00:00:00
isStaticPost: false
image: Post-1.jpg
permalink: "/blog/call-for-speakers"
---

Greetings, Open Source Enthusiasts! We’re thrilled to announce that the Call for Speakers for the 2023 edition of Open Source Conference Albania (OSCAL) is officially open! The conference is scheduled for the first weekend of September (2-3 September 2023) in the vibrant city of Tirana, Albania.

OSCAL is a community-led event, organized by Open Labs, a non-profit, non-governmental organization. This devoted group of volunteers also runs the Open Labs hackerspace, a hub for open-source activities and digital hacktivists.

Our goal at OSCAL is to further the advocacy and awareness of free libre open source software (FLOSS), online privacy, digital rights, open knowledge, and digital commons. We believe that these principles are the foundation for an inclusive and progressive society, and our event serves as a platform to share knowledge, ideas, and innovations around these topics.

We are now inviting speakers from around the world to apply and share your expertise, experiences, and stories. Whether you’re a seasoned speaker or looking to make your first presentation, OSCAL provides a welcoming and inclusive platform to engage with a small but active and diverse open-source community. There are three ways in which you can contribute:

- Workshops (55 minutes): Here’s your chance to teach others a new skill, walk through a complex process, or share hands-on experience with your favorite open-source tools.
- Presentations (25 minutes): Share your insights, research findings, or case studies. Tell us about the open-source project you’ve been working on or your views on digital rights and privacy.
- Lightning Talks: This is a great option if you want to share an idea, project, or experience swiftly and concisely. These talks are short, sharp, and to the point, perfect for delivering a powerful message in a short span.

The deadline for submitting your applications is August 15th, 2023. Do not miss out on this opportunity to contribute to the free and open-source community and interact with like-minded individuals and communities.

Before applying, please note that OSCAL, being a volunteer-driven initiative, cannot provide support for visas or financial aid for travel and accommodation. The proceeds of the event, after covering the organization costs, are primarily used for maintaining the local hackerspace, which serves as a vibrant community space for open-source enthusiasts.

We believe in the spirit of sharing, learning, and growing together. OSCAL 2023 is not just an event, but a celebration of the open-source movement and digital freedom. We look forward to your valuable contribution to this celebration.

Apply today, join us in creating an impactful dialogue around open-source software, online privacy, digital rights, and open knowledge, and let’s make OSCAL 2023 a grand success.

We can’t wait to hear your voice at OSCAL 2023!
